Modify rule S6781: Adjustments for Python (APPSEC-1693) (#3728)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6781/python/how-to-fix-it/pyjwt.adoc

== How to fix it in PyJWT

> The following noncompliant FastAPI application contains a hard-coded secret that can be exposed unintentionnaly. A solution is to set this secret in an environmnt string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

The following noncompliant FastAPI application contains a hard-coded secret that can be exposed unintentionally.
```

[source,python,diff-id=301,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
from typing import Dict
from fastapi import Depends, FastAPI
from fastapi.security import OAuth2PasswordBearer, OAuth2PasswordRequestForm
import jwt

oauth2_scheme = OAuth2PasswordBearer(tokenUrl="login")
secret_key = 'secret'

def create_access_token(data: dict):
    to_encode = data.copy()
    to_encode.update({"exp": datetime.now(timezone.utc) +
                      timedelta(minutes=15)})
    return jwt.encode(to_encode, secret_key, algorithm="HS256")  # Noncompliant

def validate_login(username: str, password: str) -> None:
     ...

@app.post("/login")
async def login(
    form_data: OAuth2PasswordRequestForm = Depends()
) -> Dict[str, str]:
    validate_login(form_data.username, form_data.password)
    return dict(access_token=create_access_token(data={"sub": form_data.username}))
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

==== Compliant solution

A solution is to set this secret in an environment string.

````

[source,python,diff-id=301,diff-type=compliant]
----
from typing import Dict
from fastapi import Depends, FastAPI
from fastapi.security import OAuth2PasswordBearer, OAuth2PasswordRequestForm
import jwt
import os

oauth2_scheme = OAuth2PasswordBearer(tokenUrl="login")
secret_key = os.environ["JWT_SECRET_KEY"]

def create_access_token(data: dict):
    to_encode = data.copy()
    to_encode.update({"exp": datetime.now(timezone.utc) +
                      timedelta(minutes=15)})
    return jwt.encode(to_encode, secret_key, algorithm="HS256")

def validate_login(username: str, password: str) -> None:
     ...

@app.post("/login")
async def login(
    form_data: OAuth2PasswordRequestForm = Depends()
) -> Dict[str, str]:
    validate_login(form_data.username, form_data.password)
    return dict(access_token=create_access_token(data={"sub": form_data.username}))
----

> When using an asymmetric encryption algorithm, the keys can be loaded from a file instead of being hardcoded:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Noncompliant code example
```

[source,python,diff-id=302,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
from typing import Dict
from fastapi import Depends, FastAPI
from fastapi.security import OAuth2PasswordBearer, OAuth2PasswordRequestForm
import jwt

oauth2_scheme = OAuth2PasswordBearer(tokenUrl="login")

private_key = '''-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
MIIEvgIBADANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAASCBKgwggSkAgEAAoIBAQDAK5Lsx5Ow0N+d
...
-----END PRIVATE KEY-----'''

def create_access_token(data: dict):
    to_encode = data.copy()
    to_encode.update({"exp": datetime.now(timezone.utc) +
                      timedelta(minutes=15)})
    return jwt.encode(to_encode, private_key, algorithm="RS256")  # Noncompliant

def validate_login(username: str, password: str) -> None:
     ...

@app.post("/login")
async def login(
    form_data: OAuth2PasswordRequestForm = Depends()
) -> Dict[str, str]:
    validate_login(form_data.username, form_data.password)
    return dict(access_token=create_access_token(data={"sub": form_data.username}))
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

==== Compliant solution

When using an asymmetric encryption algorithm, the keys can be loaded from a file instead of being hardcoded.

```
